Back in the application we built throughout the first lectures of this course, with our cockpit and the
server-element component, with using output and input to pass data around our own custom property and event
binding.
Now in the cockpit, right now I'm using two-way data binding to get the serverName and content.
Now there is nothing wrong with that but maybe we don't need to use two-way data binding. Since I only
want to save or use the data at the point of time I click the button,
the add server or the add server blueprint button,
it would be enough to get the value of the input
at this point of time and there is a nice way we can achieve just that.
So I'll duplicate this and comment out the old solution and now I'll structure it out over a couple of
lines and remove the two-way binding, there the other option we would have is to place a local reference
on that element. A local reference can be placed on any HTML element,
so not only on an input element, on anything you see here in the template and you add with a hashtag
and then a name of your choice, like for example server name since this is what this reference will
hold, a reference to this element,
so maybe serverNameInput.
Now important, this reference as I just said will hold a reference to this element,
so not to the value we entered there, to the whole HTML element with all its properties.
We can see this if we pass this now as an argument once we click add server, onAddServer.
Here, I can pass serverNameInput because the other important thing you need to know about references besides
how to create them is that you can use them everywhere in your template but important, only there, not
inside your TypeScript code, only in the template.
But we do call the method here inside the template of course,
so here we can use serverNameInput and that is a way how we can pass it to the TypeScript code because
in onAddServer, we now know that we will receive the name input,
you could also name it serverNameInput
and if we log this, we can analyze what this actually means, what we actually got here.
So let's save this and let our app reload
and now if I test something and enter something here and I click add server, of course this was broken
here, this is broken because we're not fetching the data correctly right now,
you see we actually get the input element itself.
So this is the element we got here,
that is what the local reference gives us, the element with all its properties.
So here we could also output value, the value of this input since we know that an input element
has a value
and of course this will depend on which kind of element you placed your local reference on,
not all elements have the same properties.
So with this if we try this again, you'll see we now print test because we access the value of this input
to which we got access through the local reference.
So local references, a very nice feature to get access to some elements in your template and then use
that either directly in the template,
you could also output serverNameInput value here or you can pass it on, like we do to use it in the TypeScript
code, a nice and handy feature.
Now with that being passed, we can use it here to not only log our data to the console but instead
here once we define it or
once we create the server, we could access name input value. And we should also be explicit about the type,
we know that this will be a HTML input element,
so we know that this value property will be there. Now the same can of course be done on the blueprint where
we can always replace this newServerName with name input and then value.
Now with that, we can get rid of newServerName, we don't need it anymore,
I will comment it out so that we still have it there for reference
but the new approach now only uses this local reference.
Now for this to work, we of course also need to pass this reference to our onAddBlueprint method.
So these are local references.